firstIndex method completed (#2466)
Codecademy/docs: content/swift/concepts/arrays/terms/firstIndexOf/firstIndexOf.md

---
Title: '.firstIndex()'
Description: 'Returns the index of the first element in an array that satisfies the given condition.'
Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Search'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

The **`.firstIndex()`** method in Swift returns the index of the first element in an array that fulfills a specified condition. If no element satisfies the condition, it returns `nil`.

## Syntax

```pseudo

> arrayName.firstIndexOf { condition }

Author: can you give me some suggestions on these two changes by which I can understand it better

> arrayName.firstIndexOf { condition }

Author: @caupolicandiaz

```

> The `.firstIndexOf()` method takes a single parameter, which is a closure representing the condition that an element must satisfy. The closure returns a boolean value indicating whether a particular element meets the condition.

Reviewer: update this too

## Example

Consider an array of integers representing the temperatures in Celsius:

```swift
let temperatures = [23, 18, 25, 20, 22, 21]
```

> We can use the `.firstIndexOf()` method to find the index of the first temperature that exceeds a certain threshold, such as 25 degrees:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.firstIndex()` method is used below to find the index of the first temperature that exceeds a certain threshold, such as 25 degrees:
```

```swift
let threshold = 25

if let index = temperatures.firstIndex(where: { $0 > threshold }) {
    print("The first temperature exceeding \(threshold) degrees is at index \(index).")
} else {
    print("No temperature exceeds \(threshold) degrees.")
}
```

> In this example, the closure `{ $0 > threshold }` is used as the condition. It checks whether each temperature in the array is greater than the threshold. If a temperature exceeding the threshold is found, the index of that temperature is printed. Otherwise, a message indicating that no temperature exceeds the threshold is printed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The output will be:

```shell
No temperature exceeds 25 degrees.
```

> In this case, the temperature 25 is the first element in the array that satisfies the condition, and its index is 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, there are no temperatures that exceed 25. So, the `else` message is printed.
```

> The `.firstIndexOf()` method returns an optional value, so optional binding (if let) is used to safely unwrap the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.firstIndex()` method returns an optional value, so optional binding (if let) is used to safely unwrap the result.
```

> > **"Note: The `.firstIndexOf()` method is available in Swift 4.2 and later versions."**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **"Note: The `.firstIndex()` method is available in Swift 4.2 and later versions."**
```
